#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language british
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Animating Algorithms: Developers Guide
\layout Standard
\pagebreak_bottom 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

Any software project is considered successful and flexible if it can be
 extended, meaning that extra functionality and features can easily be added
 if one wishes to do so.
 In this project, an obvious extension would be to add new algorithms for
 animation.
 Also the animation API could be extended for displaying more detailed informati
on but that would require more effort since it would involve changing all
 the API to adapt to the new animation primitives.
 In addition, the need to extend the API would make the project less flexible.
\layout Standard

Below we concentrate on the procedure that needs to be followed to add new
 algorithms (e.g.
 ShellSort, RadixSort, Depth-first search algorithm etc) and ways to implement
 them.
 In order to make the procedure clearer to the user we will demonstrate
 it by means of two examples, the first one extending the project to include
 the ShellSort algorithm (that is a VectorAlgorithm).
 The second example would involve a graph algorithm such as depth-first
 search (for traversing all the vertices of the graph).
 After that it should be clear how the procedure could be applied to other
 vector and graph algorithms besides ShellSort and depth-first.
\layout Section

VectorAlgorithm Extension
\layout Standard

We will demonstrate step by step what needs to be done by the user to implement
 his own algorithm so that it is easier to follow.
 We will assume that the user is familiar with the algorithm ShellSort and
 he is at the point of being ready to implement it.
 A brief description of the algorithm is: It is an in-place sort algorithm
 which repeatedly reorders different, small subsets of the input until the
 entire array is ordered.
 On each pass it sorts i sets of n/i items, where n is the total number
 of items to sort.
 Each set is every i-th item, e.g set 1 is item 1, 1+i, 1+2i, set 2 is item
 2, 2+i, etc.
 Typically each set is sorted with an insertionsort.
 On each successing pass, the increment, i, is reduced until it is 1 for
 the last pass.
\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The idea here is to add the 
\series default 
\size default 
Shell
\series medium 
\size normal 
Sort class into the Algorithms package.
 This is because the Algorithms package contains all th
\series default 
\size default 
e
\series medium 
\size normal 
 code
\series default 
\size default 
 (a different class for each algorithm) 
\series medium 
\size normal 
that implements the algorithms already in the project.
 So the user only needs to define 
\series default 
\size default 
the
\series medium 
\size normal 
 class
\series default 
\size default 
 Shell
\series medium 
\size normal 
Sort inside the package that would actually perform all those operations
 as described by the algorithm.A data structure that could be used would
 be the array to hold the elements to be sorted and possibly extra arrays
 that would accumulate intermediate results before the sorting is completed.
\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The 
\series default 
\size default 
Shell
\series medium 
\size normal 
Sort class must descend from the abstract class VectorAlgorithm inside the
 Algorithms package (similarly to the already implemented vector algorithms).
 The VectorAlgorithm descends from the abstract class Algorithm that contain
 methods for returning the name of the Algorithm, to return a description
 of the algorithm and also to execute the algorithm.
 This is done so that the algorithms constructor will have a vector animator
 that will handle the generated animation primitives.
 For
\series default 
\size default 
 
\series medium 
\size normal 
example,
\series default 
\size default 
 see Figure\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{cap:Vector-algorithm-extension}

\end_inset 

.
 In the figure we can also see comments corresponding to code (implemented
 by the user) that is responsible for starting up and executing the animation
 (this would involve calling of methods documented in the animation API).
 We must note that the implementation of the methods above is essential
 for otherwise the compiler would complain.
 By the definition of Java semantics, if a class extends an abstract class
 then it must provide implementation for all those methods that are defined
 as abstract inside the abstract class.
\begin_inset Float figure
wide false
collapsed true

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
package algorithms;
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
import animators.Animator;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
import animators.VectorAnimator;
\newline 
 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public class ShellSort extends VectorAlgorithm {
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
int [] a;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
VectorAnimator anim;
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public void sort(){
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// VectorAnimator methods to setup the animation
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// for example, arrows and arrays
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// here goes the implementation of the algorithm 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// with calling of animation methods
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// to handle the movement of elements in and out of arrays 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// according to the steps of the algorithm
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
}
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public ShellSort(int[] values) { //constructor
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
super(values);
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
this.a = values;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
}// values = An array of the elements that are to be sorted.
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public static String getName() {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
return "Shell sort";
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
} //identity of the algorithm
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public static String getDescription() {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
return "A string that is a text description of the algorithm";
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
} 
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public void execute(Animator anim){
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
this.anim = (VectorAnimator) anim;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
String[] steps = { ShellSort operation, Swapping, ShellSort operarion, etc
 };
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
anim.setSteps(steps);
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
sort();
\newline 
} // the main method that will cause execution of the
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
//algorithm animation
\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{cap:Vector-algorithm-extension}

\end_inset 

Vector algorithm extension
\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The next step is to break the algorithm into steps (inside the sort() method)
 so that the user can have the ability to step both forwards and backwards
 during the animation.
 This will involve calling methods on the VectorAnimator at each step so
 that the animation will be persistent with each logical step of the algorithm.
 These methods will be responsible for animating that particular step.
 The functionality of these methods is explained in the Java Documentation
 for the project (which is provided by the coders).
 In order to show to the user the current step that is in progress, we need
 to call the setStep() method to highlight a string from the steps registered
 originally, and after each logical phase of the algorithm, we need to call
 the saveState() method to give the user a point where he can move forward
 from and back to, or pause the animation at.
\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The import statement
\series default 
\size default 
s
\series medium 
\size normal 
 as shown in the sample code 
\series default 
\size default 
are
\series medium 
\size normal 
 very important and essential.
 First of all we have the animators package and inside that we have the
 Animator abstract class that contains all those data structures that the
 actual animator implementations require to restore their state.
 The VectorAnimator extends animator that again is an abstract class that
 defines all the methods available for a vector on the animation canvas.
 So it is important and vital that th
\series default 
\size default 
ese
\series medium 
\size normal 
 
\series default 
\size default 
are
\series medium 
\size normal 
 included inside the 
\series default 
\size default 
Shell
\series medium 
\size normal 
Sort class.
\layout Enumerate
\pagebreak_bottom 

\series medium 
\size normal 
The final step would involve adding the algorithm inside the catalog where
 all the existing algorithms are listed.

\series default 
\size default 
 The purpose of the catalog is to provide a layer of abstraction between
 the shell and the algorithms.
 The Catalog class can be found inside the Shell package.
\layout Section

GraphAlgorithm Extension
\layout Standard


\series medium 
\size normal 
In this section we will try to give a detailed
\series default 
\size default 
,
\series medium 
\size normal 
 step by step procedure on how the project can be extended with more Graph
 algorithms.
 The description will involve the implementation of 
\series default 
\size default 
depth-first
\series medium 
\size normal 
 algorithm as a running example.
 We will again assume that
\series default 
\size default 
 
\series medium 
\size normal 
the user is familiar with 
\series default 
\size default 
DepthFirst
\series medium 
\size normal 
 and he is ready to implement the algorithm.

\series default 
\size default 
 A brief description of the algorithm is: It is an algorithm which marks
 all vertexes in a directed graph in the order they are discovered and finished,
 partitioning the graph into a forest.
\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The first step involves adding the class into the Algorithms package.
 The reason is that the Algorithm package holds all the classes that implement
 the project
\series default 
\size default 
'
\series medium 
\size normal 
s algorithms.
 So the only thing needed at this stage is for the user to define the 
\series default 
\size default 
DepthFirst
\series medium 
\size normal 
 algorithm class with all those operations that the algorithm performs in
 order to 
\series default 
\size default 
reach all the vertices of the graph
\series medium 
\size normal 
.
 Arrays could be used in the implementation of 
\series default 
\size default 
the algorithm
\series medium 
\size normal 
 as well as the Java Vector package for implementing the graph edges and
 nodes.
\series default 
\size default 

\newline 

\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The 
\series default 
\size default 
DepthFirst
\series medium 
\size normal 
 implementation must descend from the abstract class GraphAlgorithm inside
 the Algorithms package (similarly to the already implemented Kruskal and
 Dijkstra algorithms).
 The GraphAlgorithm extends the abstract class Algorithm whose methods have
 already been discussed.
 This is again done so that the algorithms constructor will have a vector
 animator that will
\series default 
\size default 
 
\series medium 
\size normal 
handle all the animation primitives.
 
\series default 
\size default 
S
\series medium 
\size normal 
ee 
\series default 
\size default 
the 
\series medium 
\size normal 
example
\series default 
\size default 
 in Figure\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{cap:Graph-algorithm-extension}

\end_inset 

.
 The user must note again that the implementation of the methods above is
 needed for otherwise the compiler would give an error.
\begin_inset Float figure
wide false
collapsed true

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
package algorithms;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
import animators.GraphAnimatorAnimator;
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public class DepthFirst extends GraphAlgorithm {
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
GraphrAnimator anim;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
private Vector edges;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
private Vector nodes;
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
private int dim; //number of nodes
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
int[][] result;
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public void search(){
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// here goes the implementation of the algorithm with
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// all the vectors and manipulation of data
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// according to the steps of the algorithm
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
// and possibly addition of new methods to help with the operations
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
}
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public DepthFirst(GraphAnimator ga) {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
super(ga);
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
this.result = new int[dim][dim];
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
this.edges = new Vector();
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
this.nodes = new Vector();
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
initialiseResult();
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
}
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public static String getName() {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
return "DepthFirst algorithm";
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
} //identity of the algorithm
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public static String getDescription() {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
return "A string that is a text description of the algorithm";
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
} 
\newline 

\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
public void execute() {
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
String[] steps = { DepthFirst's operation, Swapping, DepthFirst's operarion,
 etc };
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
anim.setSteps(steps);
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
search();
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
} // the main method that will cause execution of the algorithm
\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{cap:Graph-algorithm-extension}

\end_inset 

Graph algorithm extension
\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
This step involves the breaking of the algorithm into steps (inside the
 
\series default 
\size default 
search
\series medium 
\size normal 
 method) so that the user is ab
\series default 
\size default 
l
\series medium 
\size normal 
e to step
\series default 
\size default 
 
\series medium 
\size normal 
both forwards and backwards during the animation.
 This again requires calling methods on the GraphAnimator at each step so
 that the animation will be synchronized with each logical step of the algorithm.
 These methods animate the particular step.
 The functionality of these methods is 
\series default 
\size default 
also 
\series medium 
\size normal 
explained in the Java Documentation for the project.
 The use of 
\family typewriter 
\series default 
\size default 
setSteps()
\family default 
\series medium 
\size normal 
 and 
\family typewriter 
\series default 
\size default 
savesState()
\family default 
\series medium 
\size normal 
 methods is similar to the previous explained example.
\layout Enumerate


\series medium 
\size normal 
The import statement is again important.
 We have the animators package and inside that we have the Animator abstract
 class that contains all those data structures that the actual animator
 implementations require to restore their state.
 The GraphAnimator extends animator that defines all the methods available
 for a graph on the animation canvas.
 So it is important that this is included inside the 
\series default 
\size default 
DepthFirst
\series medium 
\size normal 
 class.
\layout Enumerate
\pagebreak_bottom 

\series medium 
\size normal 
The final step is to add the algorithm 
\series default 
\size default 
(i.e the algorithm class) 
\series medium 
\size normal 
inside the catalog
\series default 
\size default 
 class which as already mentioned is inside the Shell package.
\layout Section

Useful Information
\layout Standard

For more useful information on algorithms, these sources may be useful:
\layout Itemize

'Introduction To Algorithms' by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest & Stein - A comprehens
ive look at many algorithms
\layout Itemize

www.google.co.uk - Internet search engine
\layout Standard

To learn how to use the system and animate algorithms, read the Animating
 Algorithms: User Guide.
\the_end
