#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language british
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Animating Algorithms: Individual Report
\layout Author

Graham Le Page (gpl26)
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This is my individual report for the "Animating Algorithms" (Topic 8.5) Computer
 Science Tripos Part IB / Part II (General) group project.
 I am a member of group "Alpha".
 This project is being over seen by Steven Hand (smh22@cam.ac.uk).
\layout Section

My contribution
\layout Subsection

Manager
\layout Standard

I was the manager of the Animating Algorithms project.
 Being a manager involved breaking the task down into jobs, assigning people
 to do these jobs, and making sure that all the jobs were completed on time.
 It also involved arranging meetings and making sure the correct documentation
 was finished and handed in on time for the progress meetings.
 I had to work with every member of the group to make sure they knew what
 to do and had to make sure that if one member had too much to do then backup
 plans were available for other members to cover their work.
\layout Standard

An example of this is this plan of action from the Progress Report which
 shows who had to do what job and when they had to have it done by:
\layout Subsubsection

Example from the Progress Report:
\layout Subsubsection*

Plan of action
\layout Standard

To be completed by Sunday 15th Feb:
\layout Itemize

Finish off last parts of
\layout Itemize

algorithms - Sid
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

animator - Steven and Andrew
\layout Itemize

queue and threading - Rob
\end_deeper 
\layout Standard

To be completed by Wednesday 18th Feb:
\layout Itemize

Write and test shell - Rob and Sid
\layout Itemize

Fully test modules - Richard and Alan
\layout Standard

To be completed by Wednesday 25th Feb:
\layout Itemize

Integrate all modules together - Sid, Steven, Andrew and Rob
\layout Itemize

Fully test entire program - Richard and Alan
\layout Itemize

Complete User Guide - Graham
\layout Itemize

Complete Developers Guide - Neofytos
\layout Itemize

Write final report - Graham
\layout Itemize

Write individual reports - Everyone
\layout Standard

Important dates:
\layout Itemize

Thursday 26th Feb - Hand in final report
\layout Itemize

Friday 27th Feb - Final review meeting with supervisor
\layout Itemize

Monday 1st Mar - Deadline for code completion
\layout Itemize

Wednesday 3rd Mar - Group presentation
\layout Subsection

Documenter
\layout Standard

I also wrote some of the documentation, including large parts of the Specificati
on, Progress Report, User Guide and the Final Report.
 This involved using LaTeX for the first time, and then showing other people
 how to use it.
 The actual documents involved making sure that the project could be used
 by anyone who had read the documentation, so for example in the User Guide
 making sure that it contained details of what would happen if a button
 was pressed, for example.
 It also involved working closely with the coders in particular in order
 to implement the user interface and document it properly, and working with
 Neofytos to produce the documentation and proof read each others work.
\layout Standard

An example of this is the first couple of sections from the User Guide:
\layout Subsubsection

Example from the User Guide:
\layout Subsubsection*

Introduction
\layout Standard

Animating Algorithms is a program designed to aid your understanding of
 a variety of sorting and graph based algorithms.
 It shows and explains the basic working of the algorithms by animating
 key steps and giving an explanation of what is happening at each point.
 It also allows you to step forward and backwards through the algorithms,
 allowing you to repeat steps if you want to see an animation again.
 The purpose of this User Guide is to show you how to use this program.
\layout Subsubsection*

Starting up
\layout Standard

To start the program on a Linux machine you need to go to the terminal and
 type java -jar alpha.jar.
 If you are running a Windows machine then go at the command prompt and
 type javaw alpha.jar.
\layout Section

Contribution of others
\layout Subsection*

Steven
\layout Itemize

Steven coded the graph animator module, one of the most challenging parts
 of the project.
 He generally worked solidly, but sometimes he did not communicate with
 the other coders as well as could be hoped.
\layout Subsection*

Richard
\layout Itemize

Richard tested the algorithms and the graph animator, as well as doing integrati
on testing on the whole system.
 Although not having as much work to do as the coders when they were writing
 modules, he made up for this with a lot of testing when the modules were
 finished.
\layout Subsection*

Rob
\layout Itemize

Rob was heavily involved with the design of the system, coming up with many
 good ideas for how to structure the system.
 He coded the queueing mechanism and the shell and also set up and maintained
 the CVS repository in his role as librarian.
 
\layout Subsection*

Andrew
\layout Itemize

Andrew also came up with many design plans for the system.
 He worked tirelessly coding the vector animator and also had a role as
 secretary, where among other things he was involved in making sure documents
 were completed and handed in on time to the right place.
 He was always present at group meetings and passed on his knowledge to
 other group members at every opportunity.
\layout Subsection*

Neofytos
\layout Itemize

Neofytos was an enthusiastic documenter, and so was involved in writing
 up many of the documents such as the Developers Guide.
 He also wrote the algorithm explanations that appear during animation to
 help explain what the algorithm is doing.
\layout Subsection*

Sid
\layout Itemize

Sid coded the algorithms and also helped out a great deal with the shell.
 He worked well with the other coders making sure that integration went
 relatively smoothly.
 
\layout Subsection*

Alan
\layout Itemize

Alan tested the vector animator as well as performing various other module
 and integration tests.
 He worked well with Andrew when debugging the vector animator.
 
\the_end
