#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Personal Report by Steven Cooper (sjc209)
\layout Description

Project: Team Alpha - Animating Algorithms
\layout Description

Team members: Alan Treanor(ajit2), Andrew Medworth(am502), Graham Le Page(gpl26)
, Neofytos Mylona(nm314), Robert Macqueen(ram48), Sidath Senanayake(sas58),
 Steven Cooper(sjc209), Zhan Li (zr112)
\layout Section

Personal Work
\layout Standard

I was the coder for the graph algoithm animation class.
 I spent most of my time implementing and documenting the API for graph
 animation as detailed in the project specification that the group agreed
 on.
 The structure of the class was based on the structure of Andrew's vector
 animation class, using the same internal animation event queue mechanism.
\layout Standard

The bulk of the code that I wrote can be found in the ShellGraphAnimator
 class, which can be found at:
\layout Standard

http://ned.ucam.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/alpha/src/org/ucam/ned/teamalpha/shell/Shel
lGraphAnimator.java
\layout Section

Team Members' Work
\layout Subsection

Alan
\layout Standard

Alan wrote test classes for the vector animation as well as performing various
 other module and integration testing.
\layout Subsection

Andrew
\layout Standard

Andrew coded the vector animation class, and was also involved in testing
 and integrating it.
 He also made sure that various documentation was present due to his role
 as secratary.
\layout Subsection

Graham
\layout Standard

Graham organised the team and wrote the user documentation.
\layout Subsection

Neofytos
\layout Standard

Neofytos was involved in writing a lot of the documentation for the project,
 including the developer's guide.
\layout Subsection

Robert
\layout Standard

Robert constructed the main queue and the GUI.
 He was also responsible for the overall design of the project, including
 the specification of the API to be used, and maintaining the CVS repository.
\layout Subsection

Sidath
\layout Standard

Sid wrote all of the algorithms to be animated, and integrated them with
 the API.
\layout Subsection

Zhan
\layout Standard

Zhan aided Alan in the testing of various parts of the project.
 If he was supposed to be testing the Graph Animator, I didn't hear from
 him.
\the_end
