#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Personal Report for Neofytos Mylona (nm314)
\layout Standard

Project: Animating Algorithms
\layout Standard

Team: Alpha
\layout Standard

Members: Steve Cooper(sjc209), Graham Le Page(gpl26), Zhan Li(zrll2), Robert
 Macqueen(ram48), Andrew Medworth(am502), Sidath Senanayake(sas58), Alan
 Treanor(ajit2).
\layout Section

Personal Work
\layout Standard

I was a part of the Documentation team who was composed of me and the Project
 Manager, Graham.
 My job was to write the Developers Documention which involved detailed
 explanation to the user of how the project can be extended.
 I was keeping up with the coders so that I could understand precisely how
 the system works and therefore give a clear explaantion to the user how
 to painlessly add new algorithms.
 I was also involved in the design of the shell (provided ideas and diagrams)
 but not implementation.
 I also helped the manager with the rest of the documents that needed to
 be submitted.
\layout Section

Individual Members Work
\layout Subsection

Steve
\layout Standard

Steve was a very active coder and has coded the Graph Animation API.
 This involved a lot of effort and time and also ability.
 He certainly contributed a very fair amount towards compeltion of this
 project.
\layout Subsection

Graham
\layout Standard

Graham was our project manager.
 This involved a lot of effort to try to organise the team properly and
 also to organise meetings and always making sure that things were on track.
 He was also an excellent documentor as he was involved in writing the user
 manual and many of the other documents that needed to be submitted by the
 project manager.
\layout Subsection

Zhan
\layout Standard

Zhan was part of the testing team.
 He was responsible for writing all those classes that would behave as the
 testing prochedures for the actual code that implements the project.
 Certainly his job was very important and it involved careful work to try
 to design appropriate classes that would perform testing according to all
 the rules of software engineering.
\layout Subsection

Robert
\layout Standard

Robert was the main contributor to the success of this project.
 He was the one that came up with the basic ideas about how the system 
\the_end
