#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language british
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Animating Algorithms: Individual Report
\layout Author

Robert McQueen (ram48)
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This is my individual report for the "Animating Algorithms" (Topic 8.5) Computer
 Science Tripos Part IB / Part II (General) group project.
 I am a member of group "Alpha".
 This project is being over seen by Steven Hand (smh22@cam.ac.uk).
\layout Section

My contributions
\layout Subsection

Designer
\layout Standard

During the early stages of the project, I worked closely with the other
 programmers (Andrew, Sid and Steven) to decide what were practical goals
 for the project, and the design choices and system structure necessary
 to achieve them.
 I was responsible for the general division of the project into the algorithm,
 animator, queue and shell packages, and together with the other programmers,
 completed the APIs for these packages at an early stage of the project
 to allow programming tasks to be divided.
 I contributed several sections to the specification for the parts of the
 project which I designed and worked on.
\layout Subsection

Programmer
\layout Standard

After the APIs and system structure were finalised, I enthusiastically volunteer
ed to program the queue, which seemed an interesting and challenging element
 of the project.
 set about programming the part that seemed most interesting to me --- the
 queue for method calls on the animators.
 After this was done I helped Andrew and Sid work out some issues with their
 classes, worked out any necessary changes to the specification and APIs,
 including designing and writing the algorithm catalog class, and wrote
 parts of the progress report to document these.
\layout Standard

I then noticed the fast-approaching final deadlines, and that work on the
 shell itself hadn't really commenced.
 I'd thought that the animator and algorithm components would've been done
 by this time, and that the shell could be designed quickly and divided
 up between a few programmers.
 Unfortunately this didn't quite happen, meaning the testers have been held
 up by not having finished modules to test, and other programmers project
 members have been busy with finishing off other parts of the project, leaving
 me to pick up coding on the shell in somewhat of a hurry.
 Progress has been fairly fast and I hope to complete it soon, although
 I have hit upon a challenging bug which currently prevents embedding the
 animators within the shell.
 It may require turning the Animator class hierachy into interfaces.
\layout Subsection

Librarian
\layout Standard

At the outset, I was responsible for arranging the project's CVS repository
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

The CVS repository can be browsed at 
\family typewriter 
http://ned.ucam.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/alpha/
\family default 
.
\end_inset 

 on 
\family typewriter 
ned.ucam.org
\family default 
, a system in Corpus Christi College which I am an administrator of, and
 provided access to the system for the group members to commit their work,
 and also to use the system as a shell server for people who did not have
 access to Linux machines.
 Several of the project members made extensive use of this system to run
 LyX for editing our documentation and reports.
 Later on I installed ViewCVS to allow the CVS repository to be browsed
 on-line, and a project Wiki page
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

The project wiki can be found at 
\family typewriter 
http://ned.ucam.org/alpha/
\family default 
.
\end_inset 

 which can be edited from within the browser.
 Unfortunately the latter didn't see much use, and would probably have been
 more useful in the earlier stages of the project while ideas were discussed
 --- meetings in person and the occasional e-mail were generally favoured
 for communication at this stage.
\layout Section

Contribution of others
\layout Subsection*

Alan
\layout Itemize

As one of two testers in the team, Alan was regrettably delayed by the leisurely
 completion of the first phase of the project, including the algorithms,
 animators and queue.
 However, where code has been available, Alan has tested as best he could,
 and provided useful feedback to the programmers.
 Specifically, Alan was able to produce test vector algorithms and test
 them against the vector animator, and provide Andrew with clear problem
 reports which lead to the addition of a more extensive error checking and
 exception system to the animator APIs.
\layout Subsection*

Andrew
\layout Itemize

Andrew worked closely with me at the beginning of the project to finalise
 the overall system design, and the interfaces between the parts of the
 project.
 After this he contributed hugely to the specification document, providing
 the initial skeleton and several diagrams and sections.
 Over the course of a few days he worked miracles to write the bulk of his
 class, the vector animator, which is by far the most visually impressive
 part of the project, and one of the larger bodies of code.
 He subsequently maintained and improved his code a great deal, responding
 in a timely fashion to various feature requests and bug reports from other
 members of the project including myself, and aiding other members where
 he was able.
\layout Subsection*

Graham
\layout Itemize

Graham is the project manager, and has been helpful in arranging meetings
 and ensuring that all members of the team have been aware of what they
 were supposed to be doing, and the deadlines that we have had to meet.
 He has also worked with Neofytos to produce the documentation for our project
 such as the user guide, and diligently herded the other team members to
 ensure that the required specification and progress reports have all been
 completed in time.
\layout Subsection*

Neofytos
\layout Itemize

Neofytos has kept in close touch with myself and the other programmers to
 keep abreast of how the system works, and has worked with Graham to create
 documentation for extending the system, the user guide, and some design
 concepts for the user interface.
 Whilst not involved in the programming himself, he has always been present
 at group meetings, shown a keen interest in how work was progressing, and
 has been around to witness many milestones in the project's progress.
\layout Subsection*

Sid
\layout Itemize

Sid is an enthusiastic member of the programming team, and had a variety
 of good ideas to suggest during the project design phase.
 He quickly produced a mock user interface, which has provided me with helpful
 cues in implementing the shell thus far.
 This done, he worked tirelessly for day after day to implement every single
 algorithm which is to be provided by our project, testing each one, and
 continues to refine his implementations and their animated appearance.
\layout Subsection*

Steven
\layout Itemize

Steven took part in the initial meetings and helped steer the design of
 the project, and then took on the unenviable task of programming the graph
 animator component.
 After an initial delay to see what direction Andrew took his vector animator
 class in, he set about making the necessary modifications to create the
 graph animator, the first versions of which were produced in fairly short
 order.
 He has subsequently worked conscientiously to improve the appearance and
 complete what was asked of him, ensuring that the graph animator performs
 as expected.
\layout Subsection*

Richard
\layout Itemize

Richard worked with Alan to test parts of the project, and suffered similar
 difficulties with lack of fully completed modules to test.
 He created some test harnesses for the algorithms that Sid was writing,
 and verified that these operated correctly and produced the appropriate
 results.
\the_end
