#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Animating Algorithms
\newline 
Personal report
\layout Author

Andrew Medworth (
\family typewriter 
am502@cam.ac.uk
\family default 
)
\layout Section*

Introduction
\layout Standard

This is my personal report summarizing my individual contribution to the
 IB Group Project, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Animating Algorithms
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 It also contains a brief summary of the contributions of the other group
 members, as I see them.
\layout Section*

My personal contribution to the project
\layout Standard

My primary responsibility for this project was to write the vector animator:
 the class which actually performs graphical animations of vector algorithms.
 This class must, when animation primitive methods are called on it or its
 inner classes, perform the appropriate animations on screen and then return
 control to the caller.
 I have documented this class in the component description document and
 in 
\family typewriter 
javadoc
\family default 
: for the purposes of this document, it suffices to say that class runs
 to over 2000 lines of Java source code, all but a handful of which were
 written by me.
 While I am not completely happy with this class, and might take a slightly
 different approach if starting from scratch (see the component description
 for an elaboration), I am delighted with what I have managed to achieve
 overall.
 Unfortunately, this was done only by spending considerably more than the
 suggested time, although even in hindsight it is difficult to see how this
 could have been avoided, as it would have been very difficult for more
 than one person to collaborate on this one class.
\layout Standard

I also took the lead in writing the original specification document for
 the project: I estimate that about half of its almost 4000 words were written
 by me, and the other half by Rob McQueen, although the other members of
 the group had a considerable input into the system architecture and design.
\layout Standard

Other, more minor responsibilities have included filling in as manager for
 Graham for periods of a few hours while he was not present and acting as
 group secretary.
\layout Section*

Summary of the contributions of others
\layout Subsection*

Rob McQueen
\layout Standard

Rob's contribution has been absolutely vital.
 As the most experienced programmer in the group, he played a key role in
 forming the overall architecture of the project, as well as writing all
 the queue classes and the shell (the GUI).
 His help and advice were invaluable, particularly to the other programmers.
\layout Subsection*

Sidath Senanayake
\layout Standard

Sid did some excellent work in implementing all the algorithms, providing
 feedback to me and Steve about how our animators should be behaving, submitting
 many bug reports (and fixing some himself).
 He also did a test GUI early in the project.
 He worked with Neofytos on the algorithm API documentation.
\layout Subsection*

Steve Cooper
\layout Standard

Steve wrote the graph animator (the equivalent of my class but for graphs).
 While he has done well with a difficult task, there were certain disagreements
 between Steve and the other programmers on a few visualisation issues.
\layout Subsection*

Graham Le Page
\layout Standard

Graham was our manager.
 He did this job very conscientiously, as evidenced by the fact that we
 have met all the deadlines, and the general success of the project.
 He also wrote the user manual for the system, as well as playing a role
 throughout the design and implementation process.
 He has always been careful to communicate with the other group members
 in order to maintain an overall picture of the project's progress.
\layout Subsection*

Neofytos Mylona
\layout Standard

Neofytos wrote the documentation for the algorithm API, and was involved
 in the early GUI tests.
 He was always cheerful and enthusiastic, and worked well with Sid on the
 documentation.
 He knew little about TeX at the start of the project, but picked it up
 very quickly.
\layout Subsection*

Alan Treanor
\layout Standard

Alan was responsible for testing my vector animator class.
 He sent me an excellent bug report, which showed evidence of having done
 some very exhaustive testing and enabled several obscure bugs to be fixed.
 He also fixed a few bugs himself.
\layout Subsection*

Richard Lee
\layout Standard

I did not work with Richard very much, as he was responsible for testing
 the graph animator and the algorithms.
 However, he has reportedly done a good job of this.
\the_end
