#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Personal Report
\layout Author

Sidath Senanayake (sas58)
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This document is my personal report detailing my involvment with Project
 Alpha (Topic 8.5) which designed and built the 'Animating Algorithms' applicatio
n in Java.
 This project is being overseen by Dr Steve Hand.
\layout Section

Personal Work
\layout Standard

In brief, I believe that I played a significant role in the development
 of this project and delivered all that was required of me.
 I also took on the work of other members when they had problems or ran
 out of time.
\layout Subsection

Design
\layout Standard

I was involved in the initial design of the specification and contributed
 some ideas as to how certain parts could be implemented.
 I contributed to the specification document by writing some of it and suggestin
g ideas on some aspects of it.
 In addition, I was part of the team of coders that devised the APIs.
 In each algorithm, I designed the overall look and flow of the animations.
\layout Subsection

Programming
\layout Standard

I implemented all the algorithms and tested them
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

The code that I wrote may be found online at: http://ned.ucam.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.c
gi/alpha/src/org/ucam/ned/teamalpha under the 
\family typewriter 
test
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
algorithms
\family default 
 packages.
\end_inset 

.
 I integrated these algorithms with the remainder of the project by making
 relevant calls to the animator.
 During the early phases of the project, I built a mock GUI to test some
 design ideas that had been discussed at meetings.
 I believe that Rob has found some of this code useful when coding the final
 Shell.
\layout Subsection

Testing
\layout Standard

Due to miscommunication, I ended up testing all the algorithms that I wrote.
 For example, I wrote methods which tested the results of the sorting algorithms
 against the inbuilt Java sort algorithms and used connectivity matrices
 from online demos and text books to test the graph algorithms.
 When Richard got up to speed, he tested much of my code as well.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

I played a small role in the documentation with Neofytos.
 I explained how my algorithms worked and how they interfaced with the other
 modules.
 For each algorithm, I came up with descriptions of each step taken in the
 hope to make the algorithm more understandable.
\layout Section

Member assessment
\layout Subsection

Graham
\layout Standard

Graham wrote the majority of the user documentation and acted as the group
 manager.
 As the manager, he was supportive of others' ideas and many important decisions
 were made by Rob and Andrew.
 The user documentation is largely his work.
\layout Subsection

Rob
\layout Standard

Rob was probably the single most important member of the team.
 He played a vital role in all design decisions, from the intial specification
 document to the APIs.
 He also coded and tested extensively implementing most of the shell as
 well as implementing the APIs as abstract classes.
 In addition to all this, Rob set up the CVS server and managed the Wiki
 page.
 He was a source of ideas and help on both Java and the tools that we used.
 A commendable performance overall.
\layout Subsection

Andrew
\layout Standard

Andrew worked in many departments.
 As secretary he was punctual and kept at us until we had our submissions
 in order.
 As a developer, he played an important part in the overall design and coded
 one of the hardest parts of the project--the animator.
\layout Subsection

Neofytos
\layout Standard

Neo wrote the developer documentation and came up with conceptual sketches
 of the GUI.
 When collecting information for the developer documentation, he made sure
 that he understood our code thoroughly.
 His ideas on the GUI were used in the final design.
 Neo also wrote a lot of the intial specification document.
\layout Subsection

Richard
\layout Standard

Richard helped in the intial drafting stages of the specification.
 Although classed as a tester, he didn't get testing till late in the project,
 and this inconvenienced coders as they had to write their own test code.
 When he did begin testing, he showed enthusiasm and some results.
\layout Subsection

Steve
\layout Standard

Steve played a part in the intial design of the specification document and
 the API.
 He modified Andrew's animator code to produce the graph animator code.
 His classes are functional and work fine, but should have spent a little
 more time making his code cleaner.
\layout Subsection

Alan
\layout Standard

Alan was a tester, and was involved in testing the vector animator.
 He compiled and submitted an error report to Andrew.
\the_end
