#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Presentation Ideas
\layout Standard

This document is written as a reference for preparing our presentation on
 Wednesday.
 My intention is to break down the presentation in steps (phases) so that
 it will be easier for our Presenter(Andrew) to prepare (as in the writing
 of slides) and also easier for other members of the project to add phases
 or remove them.
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

A gentle introduction so that the audience has an idea about what the program
 is about, how useful it is, where it can be used and by whom.
 A slide would be to list the name of the project, its purpose(mainly academic
 and educational) and who can use this program.
\layout Section

Implementation
\layout Standard

A general aproach about how the system has been implemented with possible
 reference to the queue, the shell, the animators and brief explanation
 about how they are related.
 No need for class hierarchies to be mentioned as this would take too much
 time.
 We could also explain why we took this aproach and not anything different.
 A possible slide would be a diagram from our specs indicating the relationship
 betwwen all of our classes.
\layout Section

Algorithms
\layout Standard

In this phase we could talk about which algorithms we have implemented (possibly
 why we chose them) and then go about to give a demonstration.
 Demonstartion should only involve our best animated algorithm because if
 we try to animate everything then this would take too much time.
 During demo maybe we could give an explanation of the algorithm (reference
 to the user manual perhaps).
 A slide could be a screenshot of our animated algorithm in action.
\layout Section

Challenges
\layout Standard

People will be interested to hear about the challenges of the project and
 areas where the coding was hard and tricky such as the Animators.
 A slide could contain reference to some classes and brief explanations.
\layout Section

Improvements
\layout Standard

Given that we had more time then we could mention possible improvements
 to the project and also extensions such as the addtion of extra algorithms
 (reference to the Developers Guide of the project).
 A slide could list in bullet form some suggestions and some extra algorithms
 than those implemented.
\the_end
